PR for SRVLOGIC-300, SRVLOGIC-190, SRVLOGIC-188, SRVLOGIC-192: Document "Serverless Logic" parent directory for Openshift Serverless Logic docs. (#76490)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-logic-using-uri-aliases-openAPI.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="serverless-logic-using-uri-aliases-openAPI_{context}"]
= Using URI alias

> As an alternative to the `kogito.sw.operationIdStrategy`, you can assign an alias to a URI by using the `workflow-uri-definitions` custom extension. This alias simplifies the configuration process and can be used as a configuration key in REST client settings and function definitions.

Author: Added

The `workflow-uri-definitions` extension allows you to map a URI to an alias, which can be referenced throughout the workflow and in your configuration files. This approach provides a centralized way to manage URIs and their configurations.

.Prerequisites

* You have created a {ServerlessLogicProductName} project or have access to a project with the appropriate roles and permissions to create applications and other workloads in OpenShift Container Platform.
* You have created your {ServerlessLogicProductName} project.
* You have access to the OpenAPI specification files.

.Procedure

> . Add the `workflow-uri-definitions` extension to your workflow. Within this extension, create aliases for your URIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the `workflow-uri-definitions` extension to your workflow. Within this extension, create aliases for your URIs.
.. Set the extension ID to `workflow-uri-definitions`.
.. Set the alias definition by mapping the `remoteCatalog` alias to a URI, for example, `https://my.remote.host/apicatalog/apis/123/document` URI.
.. Set the function operations by using the `remoteCatalog` alias with the operation identifiers, for example,  `operation1` and `operation2` operation identifiers .
```

+
.Example workflow
[source,json]
----
{
  "extensions": [
    {
      "extensionid": "workflow-uri-definitions",
      "definitions": {
        "remoteCatalog": "https://my.remote.host/apicatalog/apis/123/document"
      }
    }
  ],
  "functions": [
    {
      "name": "operation1",
      "operation": "remoteCatalog#operation1"
    },
    {
      "name": "operation2",
      "operation": "remoteCatalog#operation2"
    }
  ]
}
----

* Extension ID: `workflow-uri-definitions`
* Alias definition: `remoteCatalog` is mapped to `https://my.remote.host/apicatalog/apis/123/document`

> * Function operations: Use the alias `remoteCatalog` with operation identifiers (`operation1`, `operation2`).

Reviewer: @kaldesai suggest removing this.

Author: Added

> {
>   "extensions": [
>     {
>       "extensionid": "workflow-uri-definitions",
>       "definitions": {
>         "remoteCatalog": "https://my.remote.host/apicatalog/apis/123/document"
>       }
>     }
>   ],
>   "functions": [
>     {
>       "name": "operation1",
>       "operation": "remoteCatalog#operation1"
>     },
>     {
>       "name": "operation2",
>       "operation": "remoteCatalog#operation2"
>     }
>   ]
> }
> ----
> 
> .. Set the extension ID to `workflow-uri-definitions`.
> .. Set the alias definition by mapping the `remoteCatalog` alias to a URI, for example, `https://my.remote.host/apicatalog/apis/123/document` URI.
> .. Set the function operations by using the `remoteCatalog` alias with the operation identifiers, for example,  `operation1` and `operation2` operation identifiers.

Reviewer 2: This reads more like callouts than sub steps. 

```suggestion
{
  "extensions": [
    {
      "extensionid": "workflow-uri-definitions", <1>
      "definitions": {
        "remoteCatalog": "https://my.remote.host/apicatalog/apis/123/document" <2>
      }
    }
  ],
  "functions": [ <3>
    {
      "name": "operation1",
      "operation": "remoteCatalog#operation1"
    },
    {
      "name": "operation2",
      "operation": "remoteCatalog#operation2"
    }
  ]
}
----

<1> Set the extension ID to `workflow-uri-definitions`.
<2> Set the alias definition by mapping the `remoteCatalog` alias to a URI, for example, `https://my.remote.host/apicatalog/apis/123/document` URI.
<3> Set the function operations by using the `remoteCatalog` alias with the operation identifiers, for example,  `operation1` and `operation2` operation identifiers.
```

> . Use the alias defined in the workflow as the configuration key in the `application.properties` file for the REST client configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the `application.properties` file, configure the REST client by using the alias defined in the workflow.
```

+
.Example property
[source,sh]
----
quarkus.rest-client.remoteCatalog.url=http://localhost:8282/
----

> * Configuration key: `quarkus.rest-client.remoteCatalog.url`
> * URL: Set to `http://localhost:8282/` which will be used by REST clients referring to `remoteCatalog`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
In the previous example, the configuration key is set to `quarkus.rest-client.remoteCatalog.url`, and the URL is set to `http://localhost:8282/`, which the REST clients use by referring to the `remoteCatalog` alias.
```

. In your workflow, use the alias when defining functions that operate on the URI.
+

> .Example Workflow (Continued):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example workflow (continued):
```
